After having the model finally run around on the maps and being able to get some feel for speed, scale etc, we can start to plan the maps. I have held off on maps for 3 reasons, firstly, I'm awful at it, secondly it's probably the easiest content to produce for cube engine (there is about 50 maps to 1 player model in the community) and the scale issue.

Scale is a complex issue. One aspect of the scale issue is to avoid the 'toy town' feel. Hard with  a 3rd person view. Another is seen in MWLL demo. They have kept their mechs the same size as a standard player model. Thus the map models are out of scale, so your giant mech is only the height of a shrub! Get out of the mech as a person and your not much taller than short grass. It feels unconvincing.

Anyway, it's not only the psycho-visual effects that are important, it's the logistics. Is it easier to scale up the mech and use the current textures and map models at their current scale, or is it better to keep the mech as human player  size and scale down map models, textures? MWLL did the latter, probably so they didn't have to redo physics and collision stuff in the engine, this gets stuffed up when you scale up the model too much, I know because I tried this. You could only shoot the mech between its knees!

So the plan is to keep the Mech the current player size (for the same reasons as MWLL have) but scale down map models, and do something with texture/cube sizes to make it feel more in scale. Most of the map models that come with sauer are not suitable for a mech shooter which needs tiny trees to knock down, titchy cars to kick about, small buildings to collapse and the odd bit of terrain to fall.

Now that we have workked out scale, I feel I can ask/beg/plead for any experience cube mappers to do us a map, or even better join up!