#summary Keep up tp date on the latest engine
#labels Phase-Design
=== Blood Frontier or Sauerbraten?===
Blood Frontier is very much half done, so the plan for the moment is:
  * investigate both engines.
  * learn how the bits work (fps, bots, ai, online etc).
  * look at the SB mods and see if any can help.
  * define needs for engine (mech models, mech player type: features etc).
  * try a few mods to the SB engine, just for fun.
  * produce a piggyback program for SB - see below
  * work on models and toolchain
=== Blood Frontier Engine 0.80 Beta===
This is the 'Beta' release from Feb 09, which was a pretty tight piece of work. So far all our experiments have been on this version. This has been very stable but I have found a many things not implemented. I have run into a few problems using the dev releases.
Two of the major things missing from BF080 that where in Sauerbraten:
1. playermodel 
2. Monsters (name for NPC enemy). I am guessing that something will be implemented later to fulfill these roles. Acord discussess the engine [http://www.blackboxbeta.net/blood-frontier-oss here]. 
===Blood Frontier Engine Engine 0.84 Dev===
Oct 27, 2009: This has been the first Dev release to tempt me. Radar working properly, enhanced weapons. Indeed for someone wanting to do a mech shooter, the upgraded weapon effects are beoming very close to those needed. The laser rifle has a real beam now, the plasma gun has a charged up ball effect like a PPC. Looks like the carbine has dumbed down to a pistol. There are a couple more outdoors maps, that look pretty good (no, some are really beautiful and a credit to the mappers and the engine) and suggest an open style more suitable for mechs. 

There are a few new gametypes. One is called Story. Your bots follow you round, I am guessing its like Halo, SP with your troop of Bots. One of them should be called Johnson. Nothing happens on the maps at the moment, guess they need the stuff for the SP campaign added. The other is arena, which I have not tried. I have recompiled it OK, but it is a bit buggy.  
Lastest dev releases: http://bloodfrontier.svn.sourceforge.net/viewvc/bloodfrontier/
=== Sauerpork: piggyback program for sauerbraten===
  * develop as a test of code chain, versioning and =of the principle
  * allows us to continue code development and design while waiting for BF to settle
  * will not affect preexisiting SB install
  * runs piggyback without affecting SB set up ie reads different config files, hud graphics etc
  * will still be able to run SB content
  * only tweaks to FPS gameplay (better ai) will leave it compatible with SB online
  * finish by end of november 2009 - read more [Sauerpork]  