#summary Thoughts about adding heat management.
#labels Phase-Design,Featured,Phase2
== Feel the Heat! ==
Heat management has always been one of the big Mechwarrior game contraints, one of the few which made it through to Mechassault. Heat build up when firing weapons (some more than others), when hit with some weapons, flying and maybe with running. Cooling increases when you are still or are in water. Heat also affects a weapons rate of fire and invisibility. Unlike the Mechwarrior series heat won't destroy the mech, just make it neutered until it cools a bit. 
== Heat is important ==
Some wechs were 'heat pigs' and generally less effective than a cooler variant. The Ymir is perhaps the best and hottest example. I have some data on heat, if you look[http://mechbay.teamxbow.org/simpledb1/mechdata1.php here] you will notice two variables, Mx Heat and Cool Rt. Not sure what the units are, the first is how hot the mech can become and the second is the cool rate, perhaps in heat units/second. I have no information on heat generation by weapons, except from experience PPC and Lasers generate more heat than Gauss and MG for example. I believe Heat management is one of the important things to get that MA feel.
== Heat as an example of a game constraint==
As I looked throught the code it became clear that there was nothing that could easily be configured to simulate heat management in MA. So I am going to have to code it. Damn! It is going to be second on the list of mods after the controller, mainly because it is more complex and fundemental than the controller, which I am sort of hoping will be a 'bolt on' extra. As I was thinking about heat I realized it could be used as a generic constraint, such as vehicle fuel in a vehicle, but instead of generating it, like heat, you would consume it as you moved or possibly used your weapons. This lead to me realizing I needed to think more fundementally about developing a mech class, to for a framework for any engine changes and the flow on to the actual models and behavoirs. 
=== Developing a Mech Class===
This is the headings taken from the [http://mechbay.teamxbow.org/simpledb1/mechdata1.php Mechbay Datasheet] with some comments.   
  *  Weight
  *  Armor
  *  Speed 
  *  Torso Rotation 
  *  Class 
  *  MxHeat 
  *  CoolRate  
  *  Weapons - complex!
  *  Salvage - Armor Amount & types: Sal-Energy Sal-Ball Sal-Miss 
  *  Jumpjets - Speed & time
  *  Defense - one of Nullsig, Cloak, Antimissile or Shield