#summary First Cut of the master plan.
#labels Featured,Phase-Requirements,Phase-Implementation

*Mission Objective: Reproduce MA1 online game play using the Cube Engine*

==Step 1 - Proof of concept - 3 months==
Get a mech model into current maps, a basic a proof of concept. Reskin the GUI to make it more mech like, including radar Set up the 'tool chains' for code, models, maps and graphics. See more on the [Phase1] page
Note 1: Main difference(s) between a MA style mech the current player model: 
the torso rotation and effects of gait 
the damage fx and gimping 
targeting fx (nullsig, chaff) 
invisibility 
weapon handling 
heat management 
Note 2: The Mech would be a player not a vehicle b/c the cube engine doesn't do vehicles without modding the source
==Step 2 - Get the old Mechassault feel - 6 months==
Add controller support, test and refine, try to make it like feel MA1
Develop the mech model into a 'reference mech'. 2 actually, one for chicken walkers and one for human style gait 
Include all base behaviors (walking, running, falling, exploding etc) 
work out how to do the weapons 
The teams would start to form:
Engine Team 
Map Making 
Modelers 
Network & Testing 
==Step 3 - Base Game - 12 months==
We have 2 reference mechs, and a game that works and feels like MA
1. Develop a few more mechs from the reference designs
2. Work on Weapons - missiles, gauss, PPC,  MG, lasers, hammers 
3. Develop a few test good test maps (?replicate some classic MA maps) with some destructible terrain 
4. Make all the above work together as best as possible, without significant mods to engine. What's missing?  Is it a problem with the engine, models or maps. Does it need an engine mod?
 We now have a If OK proceed to 4
==Step 4 - Finishing the Basics - 18 months==
1. Engine Mods - see below
2. Work on weapons
3. Work on maps inc destructibles
4. Add voice coms here ( use Xfire or teamspeak)
Test, refine, test etc
 If OK proceed to 5
==Step 5 - Alpha release - Around 24 months==
Aim at about half a dozen mechs and maps for Alpha.
1. Major test including volume testing
2. Map development would continue
3. Mech development would continue 
==Step 6 - Post Alpha== 
1. Fix problem identified in alpha
2. Ideally map and mech development would be finished by the end of this
==Step 7 -  Beta release 1.0 Beta==
1. Major test including all release maps
2. No new map or model development 
==Step 8 -  Post release V 1.1==
1. Fix problem identified by users
2. Community development groups
==Step 9 - Version 1.5== 
1. Add the good community maps, mods, mechs and models.
2. Fix bugs
3. Develop functional spec for 2.0
Persisting world aka MA2 conquest 
Mission bookings/game scheduling 
VTOL and other vehicles (significant engine changes) 