#summary Phase 1 is the Proof of Concept Phase
#labels Phase-Requirements,Phase-Implementation,Phase-Design,Featured
== Parts of Phase 1 ==
=== 1. Tool Chain ===
- about 75% done. See [ToolChains], models remain the greatest problem, see 6 below;
=== 2. Configuration and Scripting ===
- many options to configure and script, for example some easy changes to mimic Mech behavoir  eg:
  *  kamikaze -  set to 3 makes a mech like explosion
  *  maxhealth - Inceased global health to 500 gives a much  
  *  jumpscale - set to zero this stops them jumping
  *  Note these are for BF, some are differt from SB
=== 3. Compiling, C and the Engine ===
  *  Installed code::blocks and MWGNU compiler *OK*
  *  Recompiled engine with minor changes *OK*
  *  set up a code/project repository *OK*
  *  Status:  Functional
Todo: 
  *  Explore engine
  *  Define needs
  *  find C coder
=== 4. Maps & Map Tool Chain === 
  *  Basic map editing *OK*
  *  Status:  Functional
Todo next: 
  *  See how to import/export .obj files
  *  Gain proficency in map making
  *  find map makers
===  5. Model & Model Tool Chain === 
Failed to be able to import/export model into Blender, unable to install 3DS Max on W7 though with other tools I have been able to view and edit older md2 models. Status is therefore:  Non Functional. For the moment I will: 
  *  work with md2 or 3 files. Can they do the job?
  *  find tools to work with md2 files. 
  *  think about how to implement heat and health into models. 
  *  think about weapons (most md2) - see here
  *  think about destructible terrain
  *  find modellers!!! (maybe purchase/competion)
=== 6. GUI, Graphics & Graphics Tool Chain === 
  *  Graphics Tool Chain - *OK*
  *  Able to modify GUI - *OK*
  *  Able to modify Bootup - *OK*
  *  Able to modify HUD -  probably OK
  *  Status - Functional 
=== 7. Engine Mods === 
I was really hoping to avoid any mods, but there will have to be more thab I hoped. So for phase 1 the only engine mods will be:
  * Controller Mod
  * Minor things like names 
  * Mech movement -  torso rotation (possibly if I can get a mech model working)
Unfortunately it is clear there will have to be a number of engine chages to give the real mechassault experience. For the moment these are in phase 2 & 3. The following will have to be added to the engine:
  * Heat Management (current temp, heat rate, cool rate, effects on weapons and visibility
  * Mech behavoirs (flying, gimped are misssing from the engine)
  * Mech Damage 
  * Weapons -  heaps of issues!
  * Target locking, target jamming, chaff,  
  * Mech Types
  * Mech Selection and room management